Okay.
So in this lesson, I want to introduce you to a special type in TypeScript, and it is called partial.
What partial does is it accepts an interface and it makes all the properties of that interface optional
when declaring a type.
So here I have my playground dog's file, and as a reminder, this is our little scratch pad throughout
the project where we can play around with various JavaScript view ideas and now typescript ideas.
And of course, in order to be able to use TypeScript code in this file, we're going to need to change
this file's extension as well.
So right here in my source directory, let's go to playground dogs and let's change that file to have
a extension at the end and I'll hide my nav bar update imports.
I don't know what this is.
No, that's fine, because there's nothing in the cell right now, so you should have an empty file.
And if you have any code, by the way, in this file from a previous lesson, you can feel free to delete
it.
This file is just our little scratch pad or little playground for exploring things outside of our project.
All right.
And then on the right hand side, what I've done is opened up my types.
That's file where I have my global state interface.
So what I'm going to do in this file is I'm going to import that interface.
So I'm going to import global state and that's going to come from my source directory store types.
And what I'm going to do is declare a a constant called state, and I'm going to try to create an object
that is of type global state.
So let me say right here, I'm going to declare that the type of state is going to be global state,
and I'm going to begin with an empty object.
And obviously, we're going to get an immediate TypeScript violation because TypeScript is going to
say, hey, your empty object, your type of an empty object is missing the following properties from
the type you promised me, which is global state.
In your object, that state is equal to you must give me is logged in.
You must give me jobs.
Selected organizations select the job types and in addition to those properties existing, they must
also have the exact types that we declared here.
So immediately we're going to get an error.
What I'm going to do here is and write to introduce a special keyword called partial.
It is built into TypeScript, so you do not need to import it.
And the way it works is you write partial and then you treat the actual interface that you want it to
wrap as a generic argument.
So the syntax looks like this.
I'm going to write the word partial capital P and then I'm going to wrap global state in an opening
bracket.
So the less than sine and then after global state, I'm going to close that with a right bracket or
a greater than bracket.
And that is a silly thing that my editor does, but this is what the final results should look like.
So the word partial than the less than sine or the opening bracket that is package in global state.
And then the closing bracket, this is the typescript generic syntax, so you'll notice immediately
that the error will go away.
So what is happening here?
So what partial does is it takes the given interface we provide in this case global state and it makes
all of its properties optional when it comes to this type.
So this is equivalent to going into global state right here and simply adding a question mark to every
single property.
This is basically what partial does for us automatically.
Of course, we don't want to do this in our real interface because that will affect our actual project
code and will treat all of these properties as optional, even though in the real world they're not.
We're always going to have a view X global state.
There's always going to initialize with these properties so they are required.
But this is what partial does for us when it comes to this type right here.
So if I just remove the question marks on the right hand side, what we're telling TypeScript here is
please honor the global state interface, but treat it as if each property is optional.
So if all four properties are optional, then an empty object fulfills that contract.
So does State.
TypeScript says there's no violation here.
Yeah.
Global status for properties, but with partial you've made them all optional and so you don't have
to provide any of them.
So this satisfies that interface.
However, I can still add on any valid properties.
So for example, if I wanted to add is logged in right here and provide it with a boolean value like
true.
You can see that that's also going to be okay with TypeScript.
TypeScript says is logged in is optional, but that means you can still provide it if you want jobs.
Selected organizations and selected job types are also optional.
You're not providing them.
But that's okay with me too, because they're optional.
So this object will also fulfill this description of the type that we've given to it.
Similarly, if I provide something like selected organizations right here and I give it a empty array,
that's going to fulfill the requirement.
All right.
So once again, optional, which means we can provide it.
Now, TypeScript is still going to perform type checking.
So, for example, if I provide is logged in and try to set it to a string like hello, well then we're
still going to get an issue because TypeScript says yes, I know is logged in, is optional, but if
you're going to provide it, it has to still be a boolean.
So this is not something I'm happy with.
Type string is not assignable to type boolean or undefined because the reason it could technically be
undefined is because that's what the value is whenever it's not present in literal JavaScript terms.
If a property does not exist, it's technical values, undefined, right?
So TypeScript is still validating that the properties are.
If they are, they're have the right type, but only if they are there because they're optional.
So the advantage of this approach is that it's still going to watch out for properties that should not
exist.
So for example, if I tried to add a random a property set to five, even though we've made all of these
properties optional, we're still honoring the global state interface.
We're saying these are the only four properties that you can have on the object.
Sure, they can be optional.
You can include as many of them or as few of them as you want, but you can't just add on a property
because that a property is not part of the type called the global state, or more specifically, the
partial global state, which makes every single property of global state optional.
Okay.
So that's the key difference here.
So partial makes all these existing properties optional.
And however, it still follows the general typescript mechanics of prohibiting any extra values or any
extra properties that are not defined in the actual interface itself.
All right.
So knowing that knowledge, this is actually going to prove super helpful for us in our tests for mutations.
And I'll show you how it will be helpful in the very next lesson.